
.Dd August 5, 2016
.Dt FOS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fos
.Nd Calculate Factor of Safety
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a Ar x,y,h,v
.Op Fl cdnstw
.Op Fl e Ar ON/OFF
.Op Fl m Ar GENERAL/BISHOP 
.Op Fl o Ar ON/OFF
.Op Fl p Ar ON/OFF
.Op Fl v Ar ON/OFF
.Op Fl x Ar ON/OFF
[CONFIG_FILE] [DATA_FILE]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
is a python script that calculates the factor of safety from a given 2-D data set. The script supports critical slope analysis by performing multiple calculations on data set and displaying all curvatures where FOS < 1. All options (except 
.Nm -m
) that are not supplied via command line is read from the CONFIG_FILE. Supports single FOS calculation of data set by given parameters from CONFIG_FILE or Command Line. All values supplied via command line takes higher priority than values defined in CONFIG_FILE. The idea behind this is to experiment with values on the fly without having to constantly change config files.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width XXrXXXrecursiveX
.It Fl a
Ellipsoid Coordinates as
.Nm x,y,v,h
where
.Nm v
is vertical radius and
.Nm h
is horizontal radius

.It Fl c
Number of Slice Bulk to Output to Screen - 
.Nm Integer

.It Fl d
Angle of Internal Friction, in 
.Nm degrees
-
.Nm Float

.It Fl n
Number of Slices to Calculate on Slope -
.Nm Integer

.It Fl s
Soil Cohesion in KPa -
.Nm Float

.It Fl t
Trial Factor of Safety to be used in bishops method -
.Nm Float

.It Fl w
Water Pore Pressure in KPa -
.Nm Float

.It Fl e
Save Final Figure
.It Fl m
Specifies Slope Stability Calculation Method
.It Fl o
Show Figures
.It Fl p
Display Percentage Complete

.It Fl v
Verbose Mode

.It Fl x
Perform Critical Slope Analysis on Data Set


.Sh EXAMPLES
To perform a critical slope analysis with verbose
.Nm On,
saving figures, and showing figures with an ellipsoid of 10,11,3,3 so that no values are read from the CONFIG_FILE.

.Nm fos -mgeneral -a10,11,3,3 -s1000 -d47 -n1000 -w1200 -c50 -pyes -vyes -eyes -oyes -xyes config.txt sample.data

To perform a single calculation of the bishop method on given data set with a trial FOS of 2.1 with some parameters read from config file and some supplied via command line with verbose mode
.Nm Off.

.Nm fos -mbishop -s1000 -xno -vno -t2.1 config.txt sample.data

To execute script with 
.Nm ALL
parameters read from CONFIG_FILE using general method.

.Nm fos -mgeneral config.txt sample.data

To execute script with an ellipsoid coordinates
.Nm (3,3,4,7)
where 4 is the vertical radius and 7 is horizontal radius.

.Nm fos -mgeneral -a3,3,4,7 config.txt sample.data

.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
program was originally written by Duan Uys, licensed under
the GNU Public Licence.
.Sh COMPATIBILITY
Only works on Python
.Nm 2.7+
.Sh BUGS
No bugs known at this time.

